do you ever find yourself struggling to
come up with a quick response in a work
meeting or a job interview or even a
social setting thinking quickly and
responding with confidence can be a
GameChanger not just on the business
side of things but in our social
relationships as well and in this video
I'm going to give you five ways where
you can think quickly on your feet and
respond as cleverly as possible my first
tip is something I heard from one of my
favorite Keynotes speakers who is sha
kungo and he says that he always pauses
before responding Shawn gives
presentations to thousands of people who
are often in the audience and he will
receive random questions after his
presentation which he can't really
prepare for but Shawn is intentional
about taking an extra pause taking a
second to really absorb what is being
asked and then responding with
confidence another tactic you can use is
repeating the question this ensures that
you are answering the actual question
that was being asked but it also buys
you a couple extra seconds for your
response my next tip for thinking
quickly and responding confidently is to
answer the question
directly it can be obvious when people
begin talking and beating around the
bush Without Really addressing the
question that is being asked what you
want to do is really zero in on the
question give it a direct answer and
then allow yourself a transition so you
can expand on what that answer is these
transitions or connectors can be little
statements that allow us to elaborate
things like let me explain why or here
are five examples why I believe this to
be true as an example if you are part of
an employee meeting where the discussion
is around whether or not employees
should be able to work from home
you should answer the question directly
off the start by saying yes I believe
employees should be allowed to work from
home let me explain why and the let me
explain why is your transition or your
connector that allows you to supplement
your argument and this is where you can
add a few additional examples that help
you reinforce your point the next way to
think quickly and respond confidently is
to use your own personal examples if we
have stories or experiences that we can
lean on now we're not having to come up
with a lot of fresh information because
this is something that we have
communicated in the past and if it's a
great story that we have that relates to
the subject matter we already probably
have an idea of how that story has done
in terms of Engagement or humor and if
we have good stories we can lean on
these to help reinforce our point and a
quick statistic stories are remembered
22 times more than facts Alone by
embedding these stories with our point
we will help drive home our argument and
it will resonate to those we are
speaking with the next tip is to be
prepared and you might be thinking wait
how are you prepared for a random
question that you can't know what it's
going to be about but if you're going
into an office meeting think up what
might be asked of you at that meeting
come up with your own thoughts or a few
responses before the meeting starts and
you may never be asked about those
particular points but if you are you're
prepared and there's a great quote that
luck is at the intersection of
preparation and opportunity and there
have been many circumstances where I
have gone into maybe a social situation
and thought about a few things I could
bring up or a job interview or a
business meeting and more often than not
there's an opportunity that arises and
I've already prepared I've thought about
how I can articulate my viewpoint well
and it often goes over really well my
final tip is to practice your impromptu
speaking skills because if you get used
to and familiar with answering a
question on your feet it's not going to
be so daunting when a question Comes
Your Way Toast Masters has a great
aspect of every meeting called table
topics where you can practice these
impromptu speaking skills and I've
talked about another app on my channel
before it's called speo and there's a
random prompt generator that asks you
random questions gives you a few seconds
to prepare and then you need to respond
for 2 minutes activities like this are a
great way to sharpen these quick
response skills and you will come across
as being very clever in how you respond
I hope this video on thinking quickly
and responding smarter to questions that
come up in business or social situations
has been helpful what are your thoughts
let me know in the comments did I miss
any key points would love to get your
feedback and if you haven't already done
so please subscribe to my channel so you
never miss a video in the future thank
you so much for watching this one